---
layout: post
title: Path to PPL Park
---
<p class="lead">On December 3rd, I attended a forum on youth soccer held by the Philadelphia Union at PPL Park. I was thought that the forum would be about coaching youth soccer, and while I was wrong, I still gained valuable information and got my face in front of some important people at the academy.</p>

The forum was actually for youth players and their parents explaining how the academy system works and how the college recruiting system works. The forum began with a short welcome from Carl Cherkin, a member of the front office. He then handed the microphone off to Jeff Cook and Chris Albright, one a coach at the academy, the other a retired player who is involved at the academy. The two of them gave an overview of the academy both structurally and philosophically. Then came the Coaches' Clinic Demonstration from Chris Albright as well as the aforementioned academy members. The academy's U14 and U16 teams demonstrated an abbreviated practice session to give the attendees a feel for the training given at the academy. The presenters then spoke about player preparation for college recruitment. The forum concluded with a question and answer session.

It was good to learn more exactly how the Union academy works, but I found the most value from the Clinic Demonstration. During the opening period of the forum, the U14 and U16 teams were warming up on the field behind the presenters. For a period of time, the players just kicked balls around getting their body temperature up (this being Decemeber, it was quite cold). The players then broke up into groups of eight or so and did rondos with two people in the center. The passing was really quite good and the players were able to police themselves when it came to who needed to switch into the center. 

##Clinic Demonstration
The real example exercises began after this. The teams started with a period of Active Stretching. They formed eight or so lines and did different dynamic stretches while moving back and forth between two lines on the field. These stretches included things like arm circles, hip circles, high knees, and different running speeds. The focus of these exercises was to simulate movements that the players are likely to make during games. The exercises were developed by the athletic trainers from the academy. The coaches stressed that it is vital to go straight into the training exercises from the activation period to keep the players' heart rate up. 

The first training exercise done was a passing and moving exercise. It was cleverly designed such that many different types of passes were executed by every player, and there was very little time spent standing still for all of the players. During this exercise, the coaches stressed doing it right over doing it fast. During the exercise, the coach challenged the players to go for a minute without misplacing a pass. The coaches claimed that this these types of challenges were good for keeping the players focused. Also during the exercise, the coaches also called out numerous times to look up and see their passing target before making the pass. I very much liked that as developing player vision is something I think should be stressed early and often. Near the end of the exercise, the coaches explained how proper technique for hitting longs balls is soemthing that has not been taught properly in the past. This made me realize that I need to make sure to include these techniques in my curriculums.

The demonstration then moved on to a two zone possession exercise. The players were broken up into three groups. Two groups took turns keeping possession in one zone with the third group acting as neutral players (two in the zone, the rest along the perimeter of both zones). After a certain amount of consecutive passes, the team with possession was told to move to the other zone and get the ball to the neutral players on the other end to earn a point. I felt that this was an interesting twist on the normal possession drill that I have seen. Adding the transition portion adds a further game element to the exercise. The coaches once again stressed player vision and seeing the passing angle before hitting the ball. The coaches also mentioned the importance of having all of the balls near the coach and having the perimeter players return dead balls to the coach so the pace of the drill can be kept up. Having the third group participate from the perimeter gave them a rest without letting them zone out and drop focus.

The last training exercise was a fast paced 4v3 game with keepers on a short field with full sized goals. The keepers fed the ball to the other team. The short field allowed the focus to be on finishing. Counter attacking was also stressed. There were relatively few instructions given by the coaches during this drill. The players were allowed to be as creative as they could be and try to fashion chances however they could. All of the balls were kept in the goals so the keepers could get the action going again quickly. It seems that the most important facet of the exercise was to keep the intensity high.

The demonstration ended with another period of dynamic stretching and then some static stretching. 

##Question and Answer Session
There were a number of questions asked over the course of the forum (mostly during the clinic demonstration) and I was able to get a lot of good information this way. The first question I asked was how the coaches measured the progress of their players. I understood that this was a question not easily answered, but it is the topic I am most interested in and so it needed to be asked. The coaches responded with two methods. The first was with their eyes; they could just see that the players were improving. While this is an understandable answer and how coaching has been done for quite a long time in the past, it doesn't help me very much. The second method was with statistical analysis. The academy videotapes every game that the players play and use video analysis software to break down player and team performance. The coaches then feed the resulting information to the players so they can use it to improve. I wish that the coaches had explained what statistics they used and given mroe detail, but I do not think they wanted to use that much time on a question that was not exactly relavant to the focus of the forum.

Someone asked how often the keepers trained with the outfield players. I should back up and say that after the activation period in the beginning of the demonstration, the keepers went off and trained with the goalkeeping coach until the 4v3 game. The coaches said that the keepers train with the outfield players two out of the five days a week. Not knowing enough to properly comment on this ratio, it seems like a good number. It is important that they train with the outfield players some amount, as ball playing keepers are becoming more and more prelevant in today's top levels.

I asked how much overlap there is between the training done by the academy and the that done by the first team. The coaches said that the majority of exercises that the do with the academy teams are the same as exercises done by the first team but with minor modifications to make the exercises appropriate for the skill level. The coaches explained that a good training exercise should be modifiable to be effective for a wide range of skill levels.

Someone asked if the academy was focused more on developing players for their first team or preparing players for college. The coaches said that they are more focused on developing players for their first team. At the same time, they ensure that they are preparing their players to go to college as they know that the many players will not wind up as professional soccer players. I like this answer as the academy should be the main source of first team players for a team. You can develop your players to slot right into the first team culture.

The coaches had stated early in the forum that the system of play taught is the 4-3-3, the system used by the first team. Therefore, I asked if the academy ever teaches the players how to play with three at the back. It is a scheme used by many teams in Italy as well as other teams around the world. The coaches said that as the academy is relatively new, they have not taught three at the back yet. They did not indicate that it was definitely in their plans, but it was good that they didn't rule it out.

The also asked if the academy does any type of crosstraining with other games like futsal, beach soccer, or even basketball or handball. The coaches said that the organize a short futsal season for the players during the winter. The coaches said that as the academy is still young, the futsal program has not been developed much. I found that answer very heartening. I think, at the very least, academies should training their players in other games like futsal to develop a wider breadth of technical skills.

##Closing Thoughts
All in all, the forum was a very positive experience. I wanted to stay a bit longer and talk to the coaches about furthering my career, but they were swarmed pretty quickly by youth players who wanted to talk about getting into the academy and playing soccer in college. I hope that I will see the coaches again at the upcoming NSCAA conference and that the Philadelphia Union will host more events similar to this one.
