---
layout: post
title: Parents
---

Parents can cause some problems in the development of youth players. During games, they can often be heard shouting, "Kick it!" or "[name], get the ball! Go get it!" or "Get it out of there!". More often than not, these are the last things you want your players doing. A common occurance that I have observed in youth players is booting the ball upfield on first contact with the ball. No touch to control it, no looking around, no looking in front of them even, just kicking it as hard as they can somewhere in front of them. They is especially common with defenders. It takes a good amount of practice to get the players to stop doing this. We instill in them the idea of looking around and getting a sense of the situation, controling the ball, dribbling if necessary, and then making a well informed pass. This task is made all the more difficult when the players hear their parents shouting to "Kick it!" during games. Let's face it, as much as we can gain the respect of our players and get them to seriously listen to us, they will listen to their parents advice above ours. That is why it is important to talk to your players' parents. You should do so at the earliest possibly time. If you have a pre-season meeting with the parents, that is wonderful. If you cannot speak with them until the first practice or game, that is still good.

Now you ask, "What do I tell them?" I would first start by explaining how you want the team to play. I am assuming you will be playing an attacking game focusing on ball control. You will not want your players punting the ball forward to clear danger and would rather they try to control the ball (and therefore the game) regardless of failure. You will want to reiterate that at the youth stage, results are not as important as development. It is okay if the defender gets caught in possession and lets in a goal as long as they learn from it. Now is the time for your players to make mistakes. With your parents primed with this mindset, explain to them that shouting "Kick it!" and "Get it out of there!" and really shouting any type of instruction is not going to help them. Give the parents ideas of other things they can say. Examples are "Good job!", "Nice try!", "Keep focused!", and "[name], where's the ball?". In general, you want your parents offering support and helping to keep your players focused and engaged. Remind them that their children will always listen to them first before you, and so it is important that the things they shout at their children during games are well informed. Realize that some amount of your parents will have never played soccer before and have never watched a professional game of soccer before. They only know what they have seen in other youth games. Make sure to ask if they have any questions. It is important to get any misunderstandings and misconceptions taken care of now.

Over the course of the season, they may forget your talk and lapse into their terrible advice. Do not be afraid to speak with them again after the game. Even if they do not appreciate you "telling them what to do", their children will benefit and we have to remember that is our main goal.
