---
layout: post
title: Developing Passionate Soccer Players
---
<p class="lead">I read an article in Soccer Journal, the NSCAA magazine, that discussed a lack of passion in American soccer. I must admit that I have noticed the same thing.</p>

 At Philadelphia Union games, there is hardly any noise. At one game, I sat behind a group of people who did not even watch the game. I have not seen much passion at my youth games either. Most players are content to stand in their "position" and watch the game happen around them. Parents are equally as passive. So I begin to wonder, how do I instill passion in my players?

There is something to be said for learning by example. In the Soccer Journal article, the author tells of bringing his players to Germany to let his players experience life in a passionate soccer environment. The players live with passionate soccer families and go to Bundesliga games. That seems like a wonderful way to show young players what real passion is. The hope is that the experience awakens similar passion in the players. Unfortunately, I do not have the ability to take my players to Germany. At the moment, I am not in the position to take my players anywhere.

I could tell them to watch soccer on television to see the passion (I tell them to watch soccer anyway as it is beneficial to see high quality soccer), but the passion does not translate well. Stadium sounds are quite muted compared to the announcers. What I would give to watch soccer with only stadium sounds. The best I can do with this type of option, is show them videos or pictures that exemplify the passion that abounds abroad. Pictures of the Yellow Wall in Dortmund, an example given by the article, or videos of the Liverpool stadium singing You'll Never Walk Alone can be good examples. The fans in Portland and Seattle are impressive illustrations from the United States.

